                          Grading and rules for project 2 (overdue)

Rules for choosing data sets:
   - the data set must have at least 1000 data samples;
   - if features are tabular, it must have at least 100 features (this does not apply to
        image, text, audio);
   - must not be a popular data set (MNIST, CIFAR, Iris, Movie Reviews, etc.);
   - must have labels for interpretability / comparison with supervised method;
   - at most 1 student can choose a data set (history of previous evaluation is kept);
   - at most 1 student can choose a task (e.g. sentiment analysis, facial expression
        recognition, etc.).

Rules for choosing methods:
   - at most 4 students can choose the same model combination (history of previous
        evaluation is NOT kept);
   - at most 6 students can choose a certain model (history of previous evaluation is
        NOT kept).

For project 2, your grade will be based on the following points:
a) 0.5 - granted;
b) 0.3 - tests with 2 different clustering models (0.15 points per model), demonstrated by
code;
c) 0.2 - attempts with 2 different types of features (0.1 per representation), demonstrated
by code (variations on a certain representation, e.g. bag-of-words with and without
stopwords, are NOT sufficient);
d) 0.2 - tuning of parameters (including distance metrics where applicable), grid search,
graphs showing the variation of performance depending on the values of the
hyperparameters;
e) 0.2 - comparison with random chance (0.1) and comparison with supervised baseline
(0.1);
g) 0.2 - completeness of the documentation (at least 2 pages, excluding graphs, figures,
tables);
h) 0.2 - interpretation of the results (what do the clusters represent, what are the
particularities of the examples in each cluster);
i) 0.2 - correctness of approach (features used for interpretation are not given at input; train
and test separation, i.e. hyperparameters are not set on the test);
j) 0.2 - compensation may be awarded if there are other additional aspects (testing with the
third method, testing in unsupervised transfer learning scenarios, etc.), if the sum from a) to
i) is less than 2.

The scores at d), e), g), h), i) are divided by 2 in case of implementing a single unsupervised
method.

Please submit the projects to: practical.ml.fmi@gmail.com, using the following formatting
instructions:

   •   Convert *.ipynb files to *.py (failure to comply will result in disqualification).
   •   ⁠The *.py files must be placed in the same folder named
        'P2_{family_name}_{first_name}_{group}'. Subfolders with code are not allowed.
   •    ⁠The report (in PDF format) must be placed in a subfolder named
         'P2_{family_name}_{first_name}_{group}_doc'.
   •     Submitting the complete code is mandatory.
   •     ⁠The folder containing the *.py files and the documentation must be archived in a
          single *.zip file and attached to the e-mail as a file (not link).
   •      Do not attach data, only code!
   •      Following the attached technical reporting guidelines is mandatory.

Failure to comply with any of the above points will result in disqualification.
